Updated Guide on Hoppscotch Widgets with Interactive Examples (#241)
hoppscotch/docs: guides/articles/widgets.mdx

---

> sidebarTitle: Utilizing Widgets

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sidebarTitle: Uplifting web experience with Hoppscotch Widgets
```

> title: Enhancing Your App with Hoppscotch Widgets

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Uplifting web experience with Hoppscotch Widgets
```

description:

>   Embed Hoppscotch Widgets to create interactive and dynamic elements on your

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Create and add interactive and dynamic elements to your website using Hoppscotch Widgets.
```

>   website.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

---

> Widgets are interactive components that can be embedded in HTML pages to create

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Widgets are interactive components that can be embedded in HTML pages to enhance
```

> a seamless user experience. Hoppscotch offers three types of widgets: links,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
user experience. Hoppscotch offers three types of widgets: links,
```

buttons, and embeds. These widgets allow you to easily integrate dynamic
elements into your website or project.

## Links

> Links are the simplest type of widget. They are just URLs that you can share

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Links are the simplest way to share your Hoppscotch requests. You can create and share
```

> with others. You can create links for your requests in three formats: raw, HTML,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
them with others in three formats: raw, HTML, and Markdown. 
```

> and Markdown.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Use this link to easily share your request with others or include it in
documentation and blogs.

**Example:** [Run in Hoppscotch](https://hopp.sh/r/r0338F6yoJrJ)

## Buttons

> Buttons offer a more advanced widget option and can be embedded in HTML or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Buttons take things up a notch. These can be embedded directly into HTML or
```

> Markdown files. You can customize how they look and act to fit your needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Markdown files, and you can customize them to match your site's look and feel.
```

> Embed this button in documentation, website or blogs to provide easy access to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add this button in your project's documentation, website or blogs to provide easy access to
```

> your request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
your requests with a simple click.
```

**Example:**
[![Run in Hoppscotch](https://hopp.sh/badge.svg)](https://hopp.sh/r/r0338F6yoJrJ)

## Embeds

> Embeds are the most advanced widgets, allowing you to embed a mini version of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Embeds are the most advanced widgets, allowing you to integrate a mini version of
```

> Hoppscotch directly into an HTML page. This lets your audience interact directly

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hoppscotch right into your HTML page. This lets your audience interact directly
```

with your API requests. You can also customize how the embed looks and functions
to match your preferences.

> [Embed Example](https://hoppscotch-embed-widget.netlify.app/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Example:** [See Embed in Action](https://hoppscotch-embed-widget.netlify.app/)
```

<Tip>
  Customize the width, height, and other attributes of the embed code to fit
  your needs.
</Tip>

## Shared Request

The **Shared Request** feature allows you to create widgets like links, buttons,
and embeds that can be shared with others. When you share a request, it doesn't
give direct access to your actual request; instead, it generates a shareable
link that others can use.

<Warning>
  If a shared request uses environment variables, replace them with actual
  values before sharing to ensure it works correctly.
</Warning>

### How to Access Shared Request

Steps to Create a Shared Request:

1. Click the icon next to the **Save** button and select **"Share Request."**
2. Choose the widget type: **Link**, **Button**, or **Embed**.

> 3. Click the **"Create"** button to generate the links.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Click the **"Create"** button to generate the widget.
```

4. Customize your request as needed in the subsequent **"Customize Request"**
   panel.
5. You can choose different formats like **Raw, HTML, or Markdown** to embed the
   request in your app.

<Tip>
  After selecting the **"Shared Request"** option and clicking the **"Create"**
  button, at the right-hand sidebar, the current request is saved for easy
  access in the **"Shared Requests"** panel.
</Tip>

### How to Manage Shared Request

To view your shared requests:

1. Click on the **"Shared Requests"** icon in the right-hand sidebar.
2. You will see a list of all your shared requests.
3. Click on any request to access it.

> 4. Right-click or use the three-dot menu on a request to customize the **widget,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Right-click or use the three-dot menu on a request to **customize the widget,
```

>    copy the link,edit, or delete** the shared request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   copy the link, edit, or delete** the shared request.
```
